README File for Flair Compiler

Written by Aaron Mangel
       	   Zach Abbott
           Zan Preston

Current State of Compiler
	
      >>scanner                   -- due Friday, February 10
      >>parser, step 1            -- due Friday, February 24
      >>parser, step 2            -- due Friday, March 9
      >>semantic checker          -- due Friday, March 30
      >>code generator, step 1    -- due Friday, April 13
      >>code generator, step 2    -- due Friday, April 27

Usage:
	javac driver.java  	            --To compile
	java driver path/to/filename    --To execute where path/to/filename is path
                                      to your Flair Program

	Alternately, running either the runAllValidPrograms.sh or runInvalidPrograms.sh
	will compile the program on the first run, and will execute all other specified
	programs on each future run.

SCANNER
	The primary class for the scanner is CompilerStateScanner. It scans its input 
	on a by-character basis. It begins in a start state, and then determines if
	the following character is a valid state transition while also determining
	the type of token being created. Once an invalid state transition is
	detected, it breaks off what it has so far and attempts to make a valid
	token out of it	(i.e. check if it is a valid integer, identifier, etc.).

	LexicalException is thrown for an illegal token detected in the input
	Flair Program. When an exception is caught, an error message will be output
	to standard out, anything that was being read in at the time will be dropped
	and the scanner will attempt to continue reading until it reaches the end of
	the specified input file.

PARSER
	The primary class for the scanner is the CompilerParser. It reads the token
	stream that was generated by the scanner, considering each token against the
	parsing stack and a table which was built from the FIRST/FOLLOW sets for the
	Flair grammar. 
	
	The file parseTable.dat must be located in the same directory as the compiled
	driver.class. Without this file, the parser table cannot be populated and
	the parsing portion of the program will throw an exception and quit.
	
	The table used for the parsing is sparsely populated. Cells which correspond
	to an invalid combination are not filled. The table will be filled by loading
	a local file, parsingTable.dat, which should not be modified.
	
	ParsingException is thrown if the stream of tokens is different than what is
	expected by the grammar. When the exception is thrown, the program will
	display an error and close.
	
	The second portion of the parser is the creation of the Semantic stack of 
	nodes from the parsed program. The nodes are created as the expressions
	are identified from the parsed program. Ultimately, every program has a
	program node at the top, with a set of declarations, followed by the body
	of the program.
	
SEMANTIC CHECKER
	The semantic checker is implemented using the Visitor pattern. It traverses
	the node tree that was created by the final step of the parser. Initially, it
	creates a symbol table with the variable and function definitions in the 
	program then continuing to check the types of every statement. Warnings are
	displayed if any of several situations are encountered. The SemanticWarnings
	attempt to provide as much information as is readily available in the current
	design to be able to find the problem.
	
	In running the typechecker, any semantic warnings will be collected and 
	displayed at the end of a session. 
	Semantic warnings include:
	   return statement that is not at the end of a function - unreachable code
	   return statement in the main program
	   every function contains a return statement
	   using a variable before it has been declared
	   calling a function with in appropriate parameters of the appropriate types
		
	Other issues that were suggested that are taken care of in previous sections
	of the compiler include:
	   user defined print function - this is caught by the parser section
	   using the print function in an assignment statement - caught by parser

CODE GENERATION
    The code generator handles Flair in several steps.
    An initial pass will check out the number of temporaries that need to be 
    used in every function or in the main program. This information is used 
    in the next phase of the code generation which actually takes the semantic 
    node tree and creates three address code objects, emitting the appropriate 
    code as necessary. 
    
    Since the actual code generation only takes one pass over the node tree, we 
    chose to take an approach similar to what Pascal does. Specifically, if two 
    functions are declared, function1, and function2, if function 1 is declared 
    before function2, then function1 is not able to make a call to function2.
    
    Our code generator is extremely naive. It does not contain any optimizations
    in regards to register usage.
    
    We've also decided to allocate the registers as follows:
    	Register
    		0 - first register used in all computations
    		1 - second register used in all computations
    		2 - register holds the start point to the program frame
    		3 - register holds the start point of the current stack frame
    		4 - register holds the size of the current stack frame
    		5 - register is used for returning values from a function call
    		6 - register is used to hold 0
    		7 - register is reserved for the program counter
    
    
    		
